Split Object.defineProperty() example (#23266)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/object/defineproperty/index.md

- `obj`
  - : The object on which to define the property.
- `prop`
  - : A string or {{jsxref("Symbol")}} specifying the key of the property to be defined or modified.
- `descriptor`
  - : The descriptor for the property being defined or modified.

### Return value

The object that was passed to the function, with the specified property added or modified.

## Description

> `Object.defineProperty()` allows a precise addition to or modification of a property on an object. Normal property addition through [assignment](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Assignment) creates properties which show up during property enumeration ({{jsxref("Statements/for...in", "for...in")}}, {{jsxref("Object.keys()")}}, etc.), whose values may be changed, and which may be {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "deleted", "", 1)}}. This method allows these extra details to be changed from their defaults. By default, properties added using `Object.defineProperty()` are not writable, not enumerable, and not configurable. In addition, `Object.defineProperty()` uses the [`[[DefineOwnProperty]]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy/Proxy/defineProperty) internal method, instead of [`[[Set]]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy/Proxy/set), so it does not invoke [setters](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/set) even when the property is already present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Object.defineProperty()` allows a precise addition to or modification of a property on an object. Normal property addition through [assignment](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Assignment) creates properties which show up during property enumeration ({{jsxref("Statements/for...in", "for...in")}}, {{jsxref("Object.keys()")}}, etc.), whose values may be changed and which may be {{jsxref("Operators/delete", "deleted", "", 1)}}. This method allows these extra details to be changed from their defaults. By default, properties added using `Object.defineProperty()` are not writable, not enumerable, and not configurable. In addition, `Object.defineProperty()` uses the [`[[DefineOwnProperty]]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy/Proxy/defineProperty) internal method, instead of [`[[Set]]`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy/Proxy/set), so it does not invoke [setters](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/set), even when the property is already present.
```

> Property descriptors present in objects come in two main flavors: data descriptors and accessor descriptors. A **data descriptor** is a property that has a value, which may or may not be writable. An **accessor descriptor** is a property described by a getter-setter pair of functions. A descriptor must be one of these two flavors; it cannot be both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Property descriptors present in objects come in two main flavors: data descriptors and accessor descriptors. A **data descriptor** is a property with a value that may or may not be writable. An **accessor descriptor** is a property described by a getter-setter pair of functions. A descriptor must be one of these two flavors; it cannot be both.
```

- `writable`
  - : `true` if the value associated with the property may be changed with an [assignment operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators#assignment_operators). **Defaults to `false`.**

An **accessor descriptor** also has the following optional keys:

- `get`
  - : A function which serves as a getter for the property, or {{jsxref("undefined")}} if there is no getter. When the property is accessed, this function is called without arguments and with `this` set to the object through which the property is accessed (this may not be the object on which the property is defined due to inheritance). The return value will be used as the value of the property. **Defaults to {{jsxref("undefined")}}.**
- `set`
  - : A function which serves as a setter for the property, or {{jsxref("undefined")}} if there is no setter. When the property is assigned, this function is called with one argument (the value being assigned to the property) and with `this` set to the object through which the property is assigned. **Defaults to {{jsxref("undefined")}}.**

> If a descriptor has none of `value`, `writable`, `get` and `set` keys, it is treated as a data descriptor. If a descriptor has both \[`value` or `writable`] and \[`get` or `set`] keys, an exception is thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a descriptor has no `value`, `writable`, `get` or `set` key, it is treated as a data descriptor. If a descriptor has both \[`value` or `writable`] and \[`get` or `set`] keys, an exception is thrown.
```

Author: I find the suggestion slightly less precise since it sounds like "the descriptor is missing _any of_ those keys" instead of "_all of_ those keys"...

Reviewer 2: Would this capture it more clearly? I think the point is that "none of" negations don't read so easily. 

```suggestion
If a descriptor doesn't use a `value`, `writable`, `get` nor a `set` key, it is treated as a data descriptor. If a descriptor has both \[`value` or `writable`] and \[`get` or `set`] keys, an exception is thrown.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If a descriptor doesn't have any of the `value`, `writable`, `get`, and `set` keys, it is treated as a data descriptor. If a descriptor has both \[`value` or `writable`] and \[`get` or `set`] keys, an exception is thrown.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think that's great! 👍

> Bear in mind that these attributes are not necessarily the descriptor's own properties. Inherited properties will be considered as well. In order to ensure these defaults are preserved, you might freeze existing objects in the descriptor object's prototype chain upfront, specify all options explicitly, or point to [`null`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/null) with {{jsxref("Object.create", "Object.create(null)")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember, these attributes are not necessarily the descriptor's own properties. Inherited properties will be considered as well. In order to ensure these defaults are preserved, you might freeze existing objects in the descriptor object's prototype chain upfront, specify all options explicitly, or point to [`null`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/null) with {{jsxref("Object.create", "Object.create(null)")}}.
```

Author: ```suggestion
These attributes are not necessarily the descriptor's own properties. Inherited properties will be considered as well. In order to ensure these defaults are preserved, you might freeze existing objects in the descriptor object's prototype chain upfront, specify all options explicitly, or point to [`null`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/null) with {{jsxref("Object.create", "Object.create(null)")}}.
```

### Creating a property

> When the property specified doesn't exist in the object, `Object.defineProperty()` creates a new property as described. Fields may be omitted from the descriptor, and default values for those fields are inputted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the property specified doesn't exist in the object, `Object.defineProperty()` creates a new property as described. Fields may be omitted from the descriptor and default values for those fields are inputted.
```

#### Writable attribute

> When the `writable` property attribute is set to `false`, the property is said to be "non-writable". It cannot be reassigned. Trying to write into the non-writable property doesn't change it, and results in an error in [strict mode](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `writable` property attribute is `false`, the property is said to be "non-writable". It cannot be reassigned. Trying to write to a non-writable property doesn't change it and results in an error in [strict mode](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode).
```

})();
```

#### Enumerable attribute

> The `enumerable` property attribute defines whether the property is picked by {{jsxref("Object.assign()")}} or [spread](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax) operator. For non-{{jsxref("Global_Objects/Symbol", "Symbol")}} properties, it also defines whether it shows up in a {{jsxref("Statements/for...in", "for...in")}} loop and {{jsxref("Object.keys()")}} or not. For more information, see [Enumerability and ownership of properties](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Enumerability_and_ownership_of_properties).

Reviewer: I don't know what the term "picked" means here.  Maybe "selected" or "updated". I realize this was in the original. Maybe it's intuitive and this comment can be ignored, but it isn't clear to me.

Reviewer 2: "considered"?

```suggestion
The `enumerable` property attribute defines whether the property is considered by {{jsxref("Object.assign()")}} or the [spread](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax) operator. For non-{{jsxref("Global_Objects/Symbol", "Symbol")}} properties, it also defines whether it shows up in a {{jsxref("Statements/for...in", "for...in")}} loop and {{jsxref("Object.keys()")}} or not. For more information, see [Enumerability and ownership of properties](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Enumerability_and_ownership_of_properties).
```

Object.keys(o); // ['a', 'd']

o.propertyIsEnumerable("a"); // true
o.propertyIsEnumerable("b"); // false
o.propertyIsEnumerable("c"); // false
o.propertyIsEnumerable("d"); // true
o.propertyIsEnumerable(Symbol.for("e")); // true
o.propertyIsEnumerable(Symbol.for("f")); // false

const p = { ...o };
p.a; // 1
p.b; // undefined
p.c; // undefined
p.d; // 4
p[Symbol.for("e")]; // 5
p[Symbol.for("f")]; // undefined
```

#### Configurable attribute

> The `configurable` attribute controls at the same time whether the property can be deleted from the object and whether its attributes (other than `value` and `writable`) can be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `configurable` attribute controls whether the property can be deleted from the object and whether its attributes (other than `value` and `writable`) can be changed.
```

Not sure?

This example illustrates a non-configurable accessor property.

```js
const o = {};
Object.defineProperty(o, "a", {
  get() {
    return 1;
  },
  configurable: false,
});

Object.defineProperty(o, "a", {
  configurable: true,
}); // throws a TypeError
Object.defineProperty(o, "a", {
  enumerable: true,
}); // throws a TypeError
Object.defineProperty(o, "a", {
  set() {},
}); // throws a TypeError (set was undefined previously)
Object.defineProperty(o, "a", {
  get() {
    return 1;
  },
}); // throws a TypeError
// (even though the new get does exactly the same thing)
Object.defineProperty(o, "a", {
  value: 12,
}); // throws a TypeError
// ('value' can be changed when 'configurable' is false, but only when the property is a writable data property)

console.log(o.a); // 1

> delete o.a; // Nothing happens; throws in strict mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
delete o.a; // Nothing happens; throws an error in strict mode
```

console.log(o.b); // 2
// Toggle the property's writability
Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  writable: false,
});
Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  value: 1,
}); // TypeError: because the property is neither writable nor configurable, it cannot be modified
// At this point, there's no way to further modify 'b'
// or restore its writability
```

This example illustrates a configurable but non-writable data property. The property's `value` may still be replaced with `defineProperty` (but not with assignment operators), and `writable` may be toggled.

```js
const o = {};
Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  writable: false,
  configurable: true,
});
Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  value: 1,
}); // We can replace the value with defineProperty
console.log(o.b); // 1
o.b = 2; // throws TypeError in strict mode: cannot change a non-writable property's value with assignment
```

This example illustrates a non-configurable and non-writable data property. There's no way to update any attribute of the property, including its `value`.

```js
const o = {};
Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  writable: false,
  configurable: false,
});
Object.defineProperty(o, "b", {
  value: 1,

> }); // TypeError: because the property is neither writable nor configurable, it cannot be modified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}); // TypeError: because the property is neither writable nor configurable; it cannot be modified
```

Author: ```suggestion
}); // TypeError: the property cannot be modified because it is neither writable nor configurable, 
```

console.log(b.x); // undefined
```

> Unlike accessor properties, value properties are always set on the object itself, not on a prototype. However, if a non-writable value property is inherited, it still prevents from modifying the property on the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike accessor properties, value properties are always set on the object itself, not on a prototype. However, if a non-writable value property is inherited, it is still prevented from modifying the property on the object.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike accessor properties, value properties are always set on the object itself, not on a prototype. However, if a non-writable value property is inherited, it is still prevented from being modified on the object.
```
